Participants performed variations of a spatial delayed-response task, designed to assess the retention of a target location under varying levels of subjective visibility (Figure 1A). Each trial began with the presentation of a central fixation cross (500 ms), displayed in white ink on an otherwise black screen. In experiment 1, a faint gray target square (RGB: 89.25 89.25 89.25) was flashed for 17 ms in 1 out of 20 equally spaced, invisible positions along a circle centered on fixation (radius = 200 pixels; eight repetitions/location). Another fixation cross (17 ms) preceded the display of the mask (233 ms). Mask elements were composed of four individual squares (two right above and below, and two to the left and right of the target stimulus), arranged to tightly surround the target square without overlapping it. They appeared simultaneously at all possible target locations. Mask contrast was adjusted on an individual basis in a separate calibration procedure (see below). A variable delay period with constant fixation followed the mask (2.5, 3.0, 3.5, or 4.0 s). On 50% of the trials in experiment 1, an unmasked distractor square, randomly placed and with the same duration as the target, was presented 1.5 s into the delay period.

After the delay, 20 letters – drawn from a subset of lower-case letters of the alphabet (excluded: e, j, n, p, t, v) – were randomly presented in the 20 positions (2.5 s). Participants were asked to identify the target location by speaking the name of the letter presented at the location. They were instructed to always provide a response, guessing if necessary. A trial ended with the presentation of the word Vu? (French for seen) in the center of the screen (2.5 s), cueing participants to rate the visibility of the target on the 4-point Perceptual Awareness Scale (PAS; 1: no experience of the target, 2: brief glimpse, 3: almost clear experience, 4: clear experience; Ramsøy and Overgaard, 2004) using the index, middle, ring, or little finger of their right hand (five-button non-magnetic response box, Cambridge Research Systems Ltd., Fiber Optic Response Pad). We instructed subjects to reserve a visibility rating of 1 for those trials, for which they had absolutely no perception of the target. The target square was also replaced by a blank screen on 20% of the trials, in order to obtain an objective measure of participants’ sensitivity to the presence of the target. The inter-trial interval (ITI) lasted 1 s. Subjects completed a total of 200 trials of this working memory task, divided into four separate experimental blocks. They also undertook two blocks of 100 trials each of a perception-only control paradigm, identical to the working memory task in all respects except that the delay period and target localization screen were omitted, such that the presentation of the mask immediately preceded subjects’ visibility ratings. Task order (perception vs. working memory) was counterbalanced across participants.

